Add Credential Issuer tutorial (#2960)
XRPLF/xrpl-dev-portal: docs/tutorials/python/build-apps/credential-issuing-service.md

* Headers:
    * `Content-Type: application/json`
* Request Body:
    ```json
    {
        "subject": "rGtnKx7veDhV9CgYenkiCV5HMLpgU2BfcQ",
        "credential": "TestCredential",
        "documents": {
            "reason": "please"
        }
    }
    ```
{% /tab %}

{% tab label="cURL" %}
```sh
curl -H "Content-Type: application/json" -X POST -d '{"subject": "rGtnKx7veDhV9CgYenkiCV5HMLpgU2BfcQ", "credential": "TestCredential", "documents": {"reason": "please"}}' http://localhost:5000/credential
```
{% /tab %}

{% /tabs %}

The parameters of the JSON request body should be as follows:

| Field | Type | Required? | Description |
|---|---|---|---|
| `subject` | String - Address | Yes | The XRPL classic address of the subject of the credential. Set this to the address that you generated at the start of this tutorial for the credential holder account. |
| `credential` | String | Yes | The type of credential to issue. The example microservice accepts any string consisting of alphanumeric characters as well as the special characters underscore (`_`), dash (`-`), and period (`.`), with a minimum length of 1 and a maximum length of 64 characters. |

> | `documents` | Object | Yes | As a credential issuer, you typically need to verify some confidential information about someone before you issue them a credential. As a placeholder, the sample code checks that for a nested field named `reason` that contains the string `please`. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `documents` | Object | Yes | As a credential issuer, you typically need to verify some confidential information about someone before you issue them a credential. As a placeholder, the sample code checks for a nested field named `reason` that contains the string `please`. |
```
Also, is it worth clarifying why we use a `documents` object vs `uri` (offchain vs onchain) since our reference docs say `uri` can also be used for pointing to credential documentation--maybe with an example of when you don't want to store a document onchain?

| `expiration` | String - ISO8601 Datetime | No | The time after which the credential expires, such as `2025-12-31T00:00:00Z`. |
| `uri` | String | No | Optional URI data to store with the credential. If provided, this must be a string with minimum length 1 and max length 256, consisting of only characters that are valid in URIs, which are numbers, letters, and the following special characters: `-._~:/?#[]@!$&'()*+,;=%`. |

This microservice immediately issues any credential that the user requests. A successful response from the API uses the HTTP status code `201 Created` and has a response body with the result of submitting the transaction to the XRP Ledger. You can use the `hash` or `ctid` value from the response to look up the transaction using an explorer such as [https://devnet.xrpl.org/](https://devnet.xrpl.org/).

> {% admonition type="success" name="Tip: Differences from Production" %}For a real credential issuer, you would probably check the credential type and only issue specific types of credentials. Instead of immediately issuing credentials, you might want to store credential requests, to give yourself time to examine the user's documents and decide whether to issue the credential, then use a different admin-only method to actually issue the credential after doing so.{% /admonition %}

Reviewer: I think this should be a caution admonition type to highlight the importance of a credential issuer to run actual checks.

It looks up pending credentials using the `look_up_credentials(...)` function imported from `look_up_credentials.py`:

{% code-snippet file="/_code-samples/issue-credentials/py/accept_credential.py" language="py" from="pending_credentials = " before="prompt = " /%}

Next is a text menu that displays each of the unaccepted credentials returned by the lookup, as well as the option to quit:

{% code-snippet file="/_code-samples/issue-credentials/py/accept_credential.py" language="py" from="prompt = " before="chosen_cred = " /%}

Finally, if the user picked a credential, the code constructs a [CredentialAccept transaction][], signs and submits it, and waits for it to be validated by consensus before displaying the result.

{% code-snippet file="/_code-samples/issue-credentials/py/accept_credential.py" language="py" from="chosen_cred = " /%}

### issuer_service.py

This file defines the Flask app of the issuer microservice. It opens by importing dependencies, grouped into standard lib, PyPI dependencies, and lastly local files:

{% code-snippet file="/_code-samples/issue-credentials/py/issuer_service.py" language="py" before="# Set up" /%}

> It then defines the XRPL client and sets up a `Wallet` instance with the account holder's key pair, using a seed either passed as an environment variable or input as a password:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It then defines the XRPL client and sets up a `Wallet` instance with the issuer account's key pair, using a seed either passed as an environment variable or input as a password:
```

{% code-snippet file="/_code-samples/issue-credentials/py/issuer_service.py" language="py" from="# Method for users to request a credential from the service" before="# Method for admins to look up all credentials issued" /%}

The next API method is `GET /admin/credential`, which looks up credentials issued by the service. It uses the `look_up_credentials(...)` method defined in `look_up_credentials.py` to get a list of credentials. It uses the `Credential` data model, imported from `credential_model.py`, to transform each ledger entry from the XRP Ledger format to the simplified representation the microservice uses.

{% code-snippet file="/_code-samples/issue-credentials/py/issuer_service.py" language="py" from="# Method for admins to look up all credentials issued" before="# Method for admins to revoke an issued credential" /%}

> The final API method, `DELETE /admin/credential`, deletes a Credential from the ledger, revoking it. This again uses the `Credential` data model to validate user inputs and translate them into XRPL format where necessary. After that, it _could_ go straight to sending a CredentialDelete transaction, but first it attempts to look up the Credential in the ledger and returns an error if it doesn't exist. This way, the issuer doesn't have to pay the cost of sending a transaction that's doomed to fail. Finally, the method checks the transaction result code and sets the HTTP response code accordingly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The final API method, `DELETE /admin/credential`, deletes a Credential from the ledger, revoking it. This again uses the `Credential` data model to validate user inputs and translate them into XRPL format where necessary. After that, it attempts to look up the Credential in the ledger and returns an error if it doesn't exist. This way, the issuer doesn't have to pay the cost of sending a transaction that would fail. Finally, the method checks the transaction result code and sets the HTTP response code accordingly.
```

{% code-snippet file="/_code-samples/issue-credentials/py/issuer_service.py" language="py" from="# Method for admins to revoke an issued credential" before="# Error handling" /%}

Finally, the file ends by adding error handlers for a variety of errors that can be raised by the API methods, including in the data models or by xrpl-py's API methods:

{% code-snippet file="/_code-samples/issue-credentials/py/issuer_service.py" language="py" from="# Error handling" /%}

### look_up_credentials.py

> This file implements lookup of Credentials. Both the issuer code and the subject code both use this function to look up their own credentials.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This file implements lookup of Credentials. Both the issuer code and the subject code use this function to look up their own credentials.
```

Finally, the `CredentialRequest` class inherits from the `Credential` class but checks for an additional field, `documents`. For a realistic credential issuer, you might require the user to provide specific documents in the request body, like a photo of their government-issued ID or a cryptographically signed message from another business, which your code would check. For this tutorial, the check is only a placeholder:

{% code-snippet file="/_code-samples/issue-credentials/py/credential_model.py" language="py" from="class CredentialRequest(Credential):" /%}

{% admonition type="success" name="Tip" %}
Depending on the meaning of the credential, verifying the documents might require human intervention or it might take longer than the amount of time a RESTlike API can reasonably take to respond. In those situations, you would want to save the Credential request to some kind of storage like an SQL database, and change the API to have separate methods for admins to accept or reject credential requests.
{% /admonition %}

> {% raw-partial file="/docs/_snippets/common-links.md" /%}

Reviewer: Is it worth reiterating this when you did so earlier? Maybe just move the additional info about SQL databases and creating separate methods into the earlier note.
